# Fingernail-Filer 
Stroke is a common cause of death and disability worldwide. Among stroke patients, one of the challenges would be the recovery of motor functions to perform daily activities. One of the most common daily tasks but yet challenging would be cutting finger nails. Based on the market research, most of the existing assistive devices for nail cutting and trimming require both hands to operate. The existing assistive devices are unsafe and not user-friendly when operated single-handedly. Hence, a proposed solution has been thought of to address this problem.

A stand-alone nail trimmer has been developed whereby the client is able to perform nail cutting by himself/herself.
This ergonomically designed device allows user's hands to be stabilized comfortably. The design idea generation came from the concept of a baby nail trimmer as well as a disc polishing machine. The final solution is a stand-alone nail trimmer whereby there is a disc which is connected to a motor, there will be sandpaper/ grinding paper attached to the disc and the rotational motion will trim away the finger nail when it touches. To enhance the safety, an enclosure has been built around the finger slot/hole  so the client will be able to insert their fingers into the enclosure. The distance from the enclosure to the finger slots are fixed. This will allow the client to perform nail cutting manually without any assistance and to cut all the fingernails simultaneously.
Credits: Chua ZhongYang, Andre Poh, Tan Beng Soon & Chew Soh Keow (ITE College East)
